The Cougaar Open Source License Agreement

Copyright (c) 1999-2001 The Cougaar Group. All rights reserved.

This Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which the
software known as ("Cougaar" Software) sponsored by the Defense
Advanced Research Agency, will be licensed by BBN Technologies LLC
("BBN") called ("Licensor") to you ("Licensee"), and by which
Derivative Works (as hereinafter defined) of Cougaar Software will be
licensed by you to Licensor.

Definitions:

"Derivative Work(s)" shall mean any revision, enhancement,
modification, translation, abridgement, condensation or expansion
created by Licensee that is based upon the Software or a portion
thereof.

"Cougaar Software" shall mean the programs in source and binary form
as originally created by Licensor, and any Derivative Works thereof as
created by Licensee, but shall include only those Derivative Works the
Licensor has approved for inclusion into the Software.

"Standard Version" shall mean the Cougaar Software, as originally
created by Licensor and placed on the Cougaar Server.

"Licensee" is you, only if you agree to be bound by the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.

"Freely Available" means that no fee is charged for the item itself,
though there may be fees involved in handling the item. It also means
that recipients of the item may redistribute it under the same terms
and conditions that they received it.

Terms:

1. Licensor maintains all rights, title and interest in and to the
Standard Version, including, without limitation, all applicable
copyrights, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual rights
therein.

2. Licensor hereby grants to Licensee a royalty free, worldwide right
and license to use, copy, distribute and make Derivative Works of the
Cougaar Software, and sublicensing rights of any of the foregoing in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, provided
that Licensee duplicates all of the original copyright notices and
associated disclaimers.

3. Licensee hereby grants to Licensor a royalty free, worldwide right
and license to use, copy, distribute and make derivative works of
Derivative Works created by Licensee and sublicensing rights of any of
the foregoing. Licensee understands and agrees that it shall place any
and all Derivative Works in the Public Domain or otherwise make them
Freely Available for a Reasonable Copying Fee as requested.

4. Licensee understands and agrees that its right to create Derivative
Works in the Cougaar Software is subject to the requirement that it
shall insert a prominent notice in each changed file stating how and
when Licensee modified that file or made such Derivative
Work(s). Licensee further understands and agrees that it shall place
any and all Derivative Work(s) in the Cougaar Software created by
Licensee on the Cougaar Server.

5. The data and images supplied as input to or produced as output from
the Cougaar Software do not automatically fall under the copyright of
the Cougaar Software, but belong to whomever generated them, and may
be sold commercially, and may be aggregated with the Cougaar Software.

6. Licensor makes no representation about the suitability of Cougaar
Software for any purposes.  Licensor shall have no duty or requirement
to include any Derivative Works into the Cougaar Software.

7. Each party hereto represents and warrants that they have the full
unrestricted right to grant all rights and licenses granted to the
other party herein.

8. THE COUGAAR SOFTWARE AND ANY DERIVATIVE SUPPLIED BY LICENSOR IS
PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING (BUT NOT LIMITED TO) ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTIES AS TO NON-INFRINGEMENT.

9. IN NO EVENT SHALL COPYRIGHT HOLDER BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
LOSS OF USE OF DATA OR PROFITS, TORTIOUS CONDUCT, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE Cougaar SOFTWARE.

10. Licensee hereby understands and agrees to defend, indemnify, and
hold harmless Licensor, its trustees, officers, employees, and agents
from all claims or demands made against Licensor (and any related
losses, expenses, or attorney's fees) arising out of, or relating to
any Licensee's and/or any sublicensee's, of Licensee, negligent use or
willful misuse of or negligent conduct or willful misconduct regarding
Licensor intellectual property, facilities, or other rights or
assistance granted by Licensor under this Agreement, including, but
not limited to, any claims of product liability, personal injury,
death, damage to property, or violation of any laws or regulations.

11. Without limitation of the foregoing, Licensee agrees to commit no
act which directly or indirectly, would violate any U. S. law,
regulation, or treaty, or any other international treaty or agreement
to which the United States adheres or with which the United States
complies, relating to the export or re-export of any commodities,
software, or technical data.

12. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties with respect to the subject matter herein and supersedes all
communications between the parties relating thereto.

13. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance
with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, United States of
America, without giving effect to its internal principals of conflict
of laws.

14. If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or application of the
Agreement which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end of the provisions of this Agreement are
declared to be severable.
