How To Run the Completion Plugins

The completion plugins comprise a set of sensors in all the agents
that detect activity and plugins to aggregate the activity level back
to a central point (NCA agent). Whenever a cessation of activity is
detected the next activity action is taken. This continues until all
activities are completed at which point all the agents are instructed
to take a persistence snapshot. When that completes, the society can
be shutdown and the persistence directories stashed away for later.

The completion plugins are installed by CSMART recipes and configured
by a servlet (NCA/completionControl). The servlet allows various
timing parameters to be adjusted. The defaults offer a good starting
point. Increasing the times reduces the chance of premature completion
actions at the expense of slower operation. The parameters are
summarized at the end of this note.

The default configuration of the completion plugins are designed to
work only in an unstressed environment. Running them under stress is
pointless and will only cause grief. However, by changing timer
settings, operation under higher levels of stress is possible. See the
"Detecting Completion During Assessment" section below.

Creating Persistence Snapshots

Before starting, the persistence directories should be cleared. This
can be done with shell commands or the set
org.cougaar.core.persistence.clear system property=true.

Once the society is running, bring up the completionControl servlet in
the NCA agent and fill in the first number of time steps. For example,
if you want create a snapshot for 8/30/2005 and the society comes up
with a date of 8/10/2005, then enter 20 steps to take and click
Submit. Click on Refresh from time-to-time to monitor progress.
Experience will tell how long each day of advancement requires. After
the last advancement step, every agent is instructed to take a final
persistence snapshot. Currently, there is no feedback to indicate that
this has completed so you will just have to wait and check the nodes
the old-fashioned way.

Once the final persistence snapshot has been taken, all the
persistence directories on all the nodes should be tarred/zipped. Name
the files meaningfully with the node and date or the reason for
choosing the date. Zip/tarring the entire persistence directory is
overkill since not every file is required, but the simple approach is
recommended because it removes human error from the equation.

The results from one run can serve as the starting point for another
run to a later time. Indeed, a whole series of snapshots can be
created in one extended session. For example, first advance 20 days to
8/30/3005. Zip/tar the results. Advance another 10 days to 9/9/2005
(using the servlet as before) without restarting the society. Advance
again and so on. The zip/tar files for the later snapshots will be
burdened with the data from the earlier ones. The old files could be
removed, but again, that is error-prone and should be undertaken only
if the excess time or disk space warrants it.

For the interested, the files required to rehydrate an agent consist
of a full snapshot and subsequent incremental snapshots. The end of
each advancement run takes a full snapshot. In principal, this should
be sufficient. For the FilePersistence media plugin (probably the only
one we will be using), the full snapshot is accompanied by a numbered
sequence file. For example, you might see the following:

  -rw-rw-rw-   1 RTomlinson root   135671 Jun 10 16:10 delta_00000
  -rw-rw-rw-   1 RTomlinson root   135986 Jun 10 16:13 delta_00002
  -rw-rw-rw-   1 RTomlinson root     2012 Jun 10 16:18 delta_00003
  -rw-rw-rw-   1 RTomlinson root        8 Jun 10 16:18 sequence
  -rw-rw-rw-   1 RTomlinson root        8 Jun 10 16:10 sequence_00000
  -rw-rw-rw-   1 RTomlinson root        8 Jun 10 16:13 sequence_00002

sequence_00000 and delta_00000 go together and represent a full
snapshot taken early in the run. sequence_00002 and delta_00002 also
go together and represent a second full snapshot taken three minutes
later (at the end of the test run). delta_00003 is an incremental
snapshot taken after the run completed, but before the agent was
actually shutdown. The unnumbered sequence file identifies delta_00002
and delta_00003 as constituting the most recent rehydration set and
would be the default to use for rehydration.

Note that delta_00001 is not present. It was deleted after the full
snapshot in delta_00002 was created making the incremental snapshot
superfluous.

Rehydrating a Saved Session

The procedure above creates a zip/tar file for every node or host for
every saved session. To run a saved session, the standard persistence
directories must be cleared and the relevant zip/tar files unpacked
into them. Then the society can be started (without any of the
completion plugins) and subjected to unimaginable torture.

Servlet Parameters

Scenario Time -- the scenario time when the servlet was last update.
Click the Refresh button to get an updated value.

Initial Time Advance Delay -- Some plugins delay before processing
their first set of inputs for efficiency reasons. These delays are
indistinguishable from ordinary quiescence and could cause premature
time advancement.

Normal Time Advance Delay -- This is similar to the above except the
plugins are not intentionally delaying, but are simply encountering
ordinary competition for CPU.

Advance Time Delay -- The delay after a time advance before another
time advance is allowed. This must at least cover the builtin delay
for time advancement (ten seconds) plus the time it takes for an agent
to notice and report that it is again busy.

Advance Time Step -- How many milliseconds to step ahead. One day is
the default. 12 hours is another reasonable value.

Number of Time Steps to Advance -- This is counted down for each
advancement step taken until it reaches zero. If the Advance Time Step
is 86400000, then this is the number of days of advancement to
perform. Clicking the Refresh button will bring this up-to-date.

Submit -- Clicking this button posts the new values to the servlet and
changes the operation of the CompletionSocietyPlugin.

Refresh -- Simply reloads the page. Nothing is posted.

Detecting Completion During Assessment

The completion plugins may be used in situations where the goal is not
to advance time, but is to merely detect the completion of the
planning activity. In this case, it is necessary to use less
aggressive timing parameters so that the completion detection does not
contribute to the overall message and cpu load and to avoid premature
completion detect when under stress.

The completion plugins detect the completion or lack of completion at
every agent and feed that information back to a central agent (NCA).
The detection and feedback process can be significantly delayed in the
face of various kinds of stress. It is important that premature
decisions not be made since it is possible for information that would
change the decision to still be in transit or not even detected, yet.

The parameters responsible for avoiding premature completion detects
are INITIAL_TIME_ADVANCE_DELAY and NORMAL_TIME_ADVANCE_DELAY. These
correspond to the servlet settable parameters with similar names
above. The former is used on the very first time advance and the
latter is used all subsequent time advances. Values should be chosen
long enough to allow decisions in the agents to be made and the
information propagated back to NCA. The Completion Event Insertion
recipe sets these parameters to 180000 and 120000 milliseconds
respectively.

The other important parameter is the UPDATE_INTERVAL. UPDATE_INTERVAL
determines the time between completion computations. The Completion
Event Insertion recipe sets this time for both the node and agent
plugins to 30 seconds.
