Lesson 1: Setting Up Shop 


Lesson 1 serves to pull together a lot of the basic
architecture functionality. It illustrates the
foundation concepts of Property groups, prototypes,
task expansion, and allocation. In addition, it
presents a basic servlet example to show how Cougaar
can provide user interfaces by providing web
server-like functionality. The society in Lesson 1
includes three interacting clusters: The OrderManager,
the Warehouse, and the Payment clusters.



Lesson 2: Building Partnerships


This Lesson adds two additional clusters outside of
the BooksOnLine corporate boundaries, the Shipper and
the Publisher. In addition, it introduces the ability
to customize allocation result parameters through the
use of user-defined aspect types. Lesson 2
significantly extends the use of servlets, notably
using Javascript, framesets, cookies, communications
from one servlet (BOL_UI in OrderManager) to another
(CatalogSearch in Warehouse). Additionally, this
lesson includes the generic LDM SQL plugin and the LDM
XML plugin. Finally, the GenericRuleBasedPlugin is
integrated with the Payment cluster to use rules to
determine whether the customer has adequate credit.
The GenericRuleBasedPlugin uses the JESS system, which
is a Java derivation of the CLPS system.


See BOLReadme.doc in each Lesson directory for
instructions on how to run each lesson.




